Convert wg-k8s-infra to sig-k8s-infra (#5928)
kubernetes/community: sig-k8s-infra/charter.md

# SIG K8s Infra Charter

This charter adheres to the conventions described in the
[Kubernetes Charter README] and uses the Roles and Organization Management
outlined in [sig-governance].

## Scope

The successful migration of ownership and management of all Kubernetes
project infrastructure from the google.com GCP Organization 
(or elsewhere) to the CNCF, such that the Kubernetes project is able to
sustainably operate itself without direct assistance from external vendors
or entities.

In other words, we seek to eradicate usage of the phrase "oh that's
something that only an employee of Vendor X can do, we're blocked until
they respond."

### In scope

#### Code, Binaries and Services

Code, data and policies necessary to provision, update, decommission and

> otherwise manage all project infrastructure. Given that this is a broad scope,

Reviewer: "project infrastructure" here is quite broad. Is GitHub included in this? Zoom? Slack? Opsgenie?

Author: I would say: yes.  But this is more specifically handled by existing SIG Contributor Experience subproject(s), so we delegate

Author: An alternative I think we could draw today would be to say: anything that's IaaS is managed by k8s-infra.  Anything else is managed by a more specific SIG, e.g.
- github, slack, discuss: contribex
- netlify: docs
- artifacthub: is a gap I think? release?
- snyk: security
- travis/circleci/codecov/whatever: is up to each subproject owner?

I like this less since it feels more complex and arbitrary, but I am having difficulty thinking of an exception to this as a guiding principle

Reviewer 2: > anything that's IaaS is managed by k8s-infra

I was wondering about this when I read through this originally, especially w/r/t the Areas of responsibility called out below.  I think the bullet points you called out probably makes sense, although `artifacthub`, whatever that ends up being ,  probably should  be  _owned_ by infra, like GCR (or GAR in the future?) is, and then Release would own the artifact promotion, like you called out below? 

If sig-k8s-infra will be the owner of, but will delegate responsibility for, things like Github/Zoom/etc, it would probably be good to explicitly call these out so it is unambiguous?

Author: artifacthub = https://artifacthub.io/, ref: https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/issues/188

Reviewer 3: @spiffxp haven't we been adding CNCF folks like ihor as owners in different places?

Author: Good point. Are you suggesting I add collaboration with CNCF in the cross cutting section? Something like ensuring CNCF has sufficient credentials to access all the things as a final fallback?

Author: Re artifact hub I'm suggesting some part of this project should own the kubernetes org or equivalent there. Not artifact hub itself since it's for all CNCF projects

Reviewer: > anything that's IaaS is managed by k8s-infra

That's much more clear and I would be supportive of this. So our GCP/AWS/other cloud provider accounts would roll up into this sig for now.

Author: Language that refers to IaaS added here: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/5928/files#diff-b55cad1162db37049c36ff01b2892c020ecd9b8ce4a89284850d9bc2b6a6a25aR28-R34

Language that pushes non-IaaS resources out of scope added here: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/5928/files#diff-b55cad1162db37049c36ff01b2892c020ecd9b8ce4a89284850d9bc2b6a6a25aR184-R187

we prefer (where possible) to delegate ownership and operation of the 
code / infrastructure to more directly responsible SIGs or Committees. This
is largely how the SIG operated during its lifetime as a WG, driving the
policies and tooling upon which SIG-owned infrastructure operates.

Areas of responsibility include:

- Policy definition and enforcement for areas related to project
  infrastructure, including:
  - What is in-scope/out-of-scope for project infrastructure
  - Who should be allowed access to which parts of project infrastructure,
    e.g. team definition, vetting criteria, etc.
  - How infrastructure should be managed, e.g. naming schemes, acceptable
    tooling or practices, on-call or escalation policies, etc.
- Configuration management of all resources and service usage within the
  kubernetes.io GCP Organization, including, but not limited to:
  - API / Service enablement
  - BigQuery datasets
  - DNS records, e.g. for k8s.io, kubernetes.io, and other project-owned domains
  - GCB usage
  - GCP projects, instances, images
  - GCR repositories
  - GCS buckets
  - GKE clusters, e.g. community infra cluster, prow build clusters
  - GSM secrets

>   - Google Groups

Reviewer: This one seems like a shared one with Steering/ContribEx

Author: I thought we covered this under the `Public Names` section?  I have no intention of kicking anyone out of OWNERS files so as to ensure policy is enforced.  Ownership of the code I'm gonna push back and suggest that it makes more sense for this SIG to own it since the rest of our infrastructure breaks if this code breaks.

Some examples for illustrative purposes

##### Access Policies

- We are responsible for ensuring the appropriate members of a SIG have
  sufficient permissions to troubleshoot and manage their app or
  infrastructure.
- However, we will NOT grant overly broad permissions to an overly broad
  group of people. We will collaborate with SIGs to ensure access is
  appropriately scoped.
- We MAY revoke access in the event of a security-related incident

e.g. SIG Release is responsible for who gets what level of access to
infrastructure used by the release-engineering subproject to cut a kubernetes
release

##### Artifact Hosting

- We are not responsible for promoting into production artifacts that belong
  to subprojects owned by other SIGs.
- However, we MAY revert changes that prevent artifact promotion from
  functioning.

e.g. SIG Storage is responsible for declaring which CSI-related images should
be promoted to production, SIG Release is responsible for ensuring those
images make it to production, and SIG K8s Infra is responsible for ensuring
that production exists in the first place

##### Community Infra Cluster

> - We are responsible for ensuring a community-owned GKE cluster is available

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- We are responsible for ensuring community-owned GKE clusters are available
```
We may need more than one cluster.

  to run apps owned by other SIGs.
- However, we are NOT responsible for ensuring proper functionality of those
  apps. That is left to the SIGs.

e.g. SIG Scalability is responsible for ensuring perfdash.k8s.io displays
valid data

##### Project Infrastructure Budget

- We are responsible for enforcing policy on what is considered in-scope and
  out-of-scope for project infrastructure (and thus, where we spend our
  infrastructure budget)
- Crafting such policy is done in collaboration with the Steering Committee
  (owns project spending) and SIG Architecture (owns kubernetes definition)
- We MAY delete or scope down infrastructure in the event of unexpected or
  undue spend

e.g. SIG K8s Infra will deny requests to host artifacts for projects that are
formerly part of or adjacent to the kubernetes project (e.g. helm, cri-o)

##### Public Names

- We are responsible for enforcing policy on what is considered appropriate
  or inappropriate for the names of public-facing entities such as DNS
  records and Google Group names
- Crafting such policy is done in collaboration with the Steering Committee,
  SIG Architecture, and SIG Contributor Experience

> e.g. Group names that are used to community upon behalf of the project are

Reviewer 5: not sure how to parse `Group names that are used to community upon behalf of the project`, rephrase?

Author: s/community/communicate, e.g. `contributors@kubernetes.io`

Author: Which is basically what I added here: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/5928/files#diff-b55cad1162db37049c36ff01b2892c020ecd9b8ce4a89284850d9bc2b6a6a25aR147-R149

    infrastructure
  - Billing reports to show where the community's infrastructure budget is
    being spent

In terms of subprojects, this means we own kubernetes/k8s.io and are an
escalation point of last resort for more tightly scoped subprojects that
live within this repo.

#### Cross-cutting and Externally Facing Processes

We prefer (where possible) to delegate ownership, operation and policy
definition to SIGs that are more directly responsible for a given area
of the project. However, we reserve the right to halt infrastructure or
roll back changes if the project as a whole is being negatively impacted.

Some examples for illustrative purposes

##### Access Policies

- We are responsible for ensuring the appropriate members of a SIG have
  sufficient permissions to troubleshoot and manage their app or
  infrastructure.
- However, we will NOT grant overly broad permissions to an overly broad
  group of people. We will collaborate with SIGs to ensure access is
  appropriately scoped.
- We MAY revoke access in the event of a security-related incident

e.g. SIG Release is responsible for who gets what level of access to

> infrastructure used by the release-engineering subproject to cut a kubernetes

Reviewer 6: nit: "Kubernetes"

Author: Found this in a few other places, replaced

  SIG Architecture, and SIG Contributor Experience

e.g. Group names that are used to community upon behalf of the project are
vetted by SIG Contributor Experience, group names that are used for RBAC or
IAM bindings are vetted by SIG K8s Infra.

##### Secrets and Credentials

- We are responsible for ensuring secure storage and retrieval of secrets
  such as passwords, tokens, keys, etc.
- However, we are NOT responsible for ensuring the value of those secrets
  is valid.
- We MAY delete or deactivate secrets in the event of a security-related
  incident

e.g. SIG Contributor Experience is responsible for ensuring valid Slack API
credentials exist for proper functioning of slack-infra

##### Security Response

- Overriding all of the above, we MAY revoke, delete, or deactivate
  infrastructure, services or access in the event of a security-related
  incident.
- This depends on responsiveness of the owning SIG, and urgency and severity
  of the incident being responded to

e.g. SIG K8s Infra may force rotation of prow build cluster credentials if
appropriately credentialed members of SIG Testing are not available

### Out of scope

> Unless explicitly stated otherwise above, or list as a subproject of this SIG,

Reviewer 6: This line reads strangely.

Author: What I'm trying to get at is
```suggestion
We are not responsible for code that runs _on_ project infrastructure, with the exception of:
- subprojects of this SIG (as listed in the-more-continuously-kept-up-to-date sigs.yaml)
- code we share responsibility for (as listed in the [Cross-cutting and Externally Facing Processes] section)
```

Reviewer 2: The suggested change is clearer to me.

Author: Made something close to the suggested change: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/5928/files#diff-b55cad1162db37049c36ff01b2892c020ecd9b8ce4a89284850d9bc2b6a6a25aR176-R182
